.TH "HBR" "1" "" "" "handbrake runner"
.SH "NAME"
hbr \- handbrake runner \- runs handbrake with setting from key\-value file(s)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B hbr
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.IR \fIFILE\fR...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
hbr is a tool for automating HandBrakeCLI runs. It takes a keyfile as input
and runs HandBrakeCLI to encode videos.
.PP
It combines keys in a main config, the input file's CONFIG section, and one OUTFILE section to produce a set of arguments and call HandBrakeCLI.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
print the commands to be run instead of executing
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR
use named configuration file instead of default
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preview\fR
generate a preview image for each output file
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite\fR
overwrite encoded files without confirmation
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-skip\fR
skip encoding if output file already exists
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-episode\fR=\fI\,NUMBER\/\fR
encodes first entry with matching episode number
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fI\,PATH\/\fR
override location to write output files
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hbversion\fR=\fI\,X\/\fR.\fIY\fR.\fIZ\fR
override handbrake version detection
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help options
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
prints version info and exit
.SH FILES
.IP "\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hbr/hbr.conf\fR"
.IP "\fB$HOME/.config/hbr/hbr.conf\fR"
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
Input files consist of a CONFIG section and one or more OUTFILE sections. Each OUTFILE section must have a unique identifier appended to OUTFILE. Sections include keys and values than influence each encode.
.PP
Most of the key names come from the related HandBrakeCLI arguments. Some are
excluded because they do not make sense in the context of hbr. For a full list,
run HandBrakeCLI --help.
.PP
These keys take values exactly as specified by HandBrakeCLI except for boolean
arguments. For example, specify \%--markers, \%--no-markers as
\%markers=true, \%markers=false in the keyfile. Boolean keys do not always have a
corresponding negation value. For example, in older HandBrake versions
\%--no-markers did not exist. In cases where there is no negation argument
setting a key to false will not produce an argument to HandBrakeCLI, but it
overrides values set in the keyfile or global CONFIG section.
.PP
hbr has its own keys related to input and output file names. hbr tries to follow the Plex media preparation guidelines documented at:
    https://support.plex.tv/articles/categories/media-preparation/
.SS hbr specific keys
.TP 15
.B input_basedir
Path that specifies where to find iso_filename. Optional. iso_filename can specify a full path instead.
.TP
.B iso_filename
The input file or device. Combined with input_basedir to make a full path.
.TP
.B type
Set to \fIseries\fR or \fImovie\fR. Controls filename format.
.TP
.B output_basedir
Specifies the path for the output file. Path must already exist.
.TP
.B name
Base name for the output file. Usually the title of the series or the movie name.
.TP
.B year
4-digit year used for movie filenames.
.TP
.B season
Season number used in series filenames.
.TP
.B episode
Episode number used in series filenames.
.TP
.B specific_name
Extra name appended before the file extension. Useful for episode names or file specific metadata.
.TP
.B preview
Generate a preview image from the output file.
.TP
.B add_year
Adds the year to the output_basedir when set true.
.TP
.B extra
Causes the output file to be placed in a subdirectory for Plex to handle as an extra. Types of extras are: \fIbehindthescenes\fR, \fIdeleted\fR, \fIfeaturette\fR, \fIinterview\fR, \fIscene\fR, \fIshort\fR, \fItrailer\fR, \fIother\fR.
.TP
.B debug
Prints command that would be run instead of producing an encode. Useful for testing or disabling certain encodes.
.SS Example output file names
.TP
.B movie
name (year) - specific_name.mkv
.TP
.B series
name - s01e001 - specific_name.mkv
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS "Input File \fR(Akira.hbr)"
.nf
[CONFIG]
input_basedir=/path/to/input_files
output_basedir=/path/to/output_files
type=movie
name=Akira
year=1988

[OUTFILE1]
iso_filename=Akira.iso
title=11
crop=10:10:0:0
chapters=1-18
audio=1,2,3

[OUTFILE2]
iso_filename=Akira BD
title=1
markers=true
specific_name=1080p
chapters=1-23
audio=2,4,6
.fi
.SS "Running hbr"
.nf
# check output before executing
hbr -d Akira.hbr

# specify alternate output location
hbr -o /a/different/path Akira.hbr

# run encodes
hbr Akira.hbr
.fi
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at <https://github.com/epakai/hbr/issues>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2018 Joshua Honeycutt
License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl2.html>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B hbr-gen(1), HandBrakeCLI(1)
